### 1. Analysis of the Method Under Test

__Comments:__ Conditional statements found by own parsing method. The user has
to enter the types of the inputs, however. THere is some manual work involved in
getting all the components of the tool working together, but there is a clear
structure for doing so. 

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 2. Test Requirement Generation

__Comments:__ Branch coverage implemented. 

__Mark:__ 50

---

### 3. Instrumentation

__Comments:__ Instrumented class created automatically. 

__Mark:__ 70

---

### 4. Test Data Generation

__Comments:__ Alternating Variable Method (AVM) implemented. The fitness
function looks like it needs to be updated for each of the conditions, however?
It was hard to see how this would work for different branch types.

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 5. Coverage Level Computation and Reporting

__Comments:__ Reports to the console structures that are covered and those that
are not. 

__Mark:__ 50

---

### 6. Test Suite Output

__Comments:__ Full JUnit test suite class generation (using actual outputs as
expected outputs)

__Mark:__ 85

---

### 7. GitHub Repo and README.md

__Comments:__ Informative GitHub repo README.md page.

__Mark:__ 70

---

### Summary

A good attempt at the assignment, I'd have liked to have seen you attempt more
coverage types, however!

__Overall Mark:__ 72.5% (Number of people in team: 1 -> method used: average of top 4 grades.) Please note this is a raw mark, that is, any lateness penalties have not been applied (if applicable).