### 1. Analysis of the Method Under Test

__Comments:__ Significant automation, parsing of code and parameters.

__Mark:__ 85

---

### 2. Test Requirement Generation

__Comments:__ Generates test requirements for branch, condition, and MCDC
although the full extent of the latter is not shown off to great depth with
examples. 

__Mark:__ 70

---

### 3. Instrumentation

__Comments:__ Method under test is automatically parsed and instrumented. 

__Mark:__ 85

---

### 4. Test Data Generation

__Comments:__ Non-trivial random test generation on a number of different types,
using bounds. 

__Mark:__ 60

---

### 5. Coverage Level Computation and Reporting

__Comments:__ Coverage level computation and logging as the random test
generation runs, which gets more complex with MCDC.

__Mark:__ 60

---

### 6. Test Suite Output

__Comments:__ Produces a JUnit test suite that requires some manual
intervention.

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 7. GitHub Repo and README.md

__Comments:__ I found the instructions hard to follow --- I had to make myself
quite familiar with the code base in order to understand what to do –-- I would
have liked a series of clear commands to execute to get the project running.
However, it does provide a good overview of what the tool does. 

__Mark:__ 60

---

### Summary

__Comments:__ A solid piece of work –-- a lot of effort has gone into this. My
experience would have been vastly improved by a better walkthrough in the
README.md, but you've implemented much of the functionality required. Well done.

__Overall Mark:__ 80.0% (Number of people in team: 1 -> method used: average of top 3 grades)