### 1. Analysis of the Method Under Test

__Comments:__ Partially automated, requires different classes to be run as
"commands" of the overall tool.

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 2. Test Requirement Generation

__Comments:__ Condition coverage and Restricted MCDC.

__Mark:__ 70

---

### 3. Instrumentation

__Comments:__ Partially automated – instrumentation statements generated, but
then need to be "moved" into position in the Java code.

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 4. Test Data Generation

__Comments:__ Random for a variety of primitive types and Strings, some
configurability. It's not integrated into the rest of system. 

__Mark:__ 60

---

### 5. Coverage Level Computation and Reporting

__Comments:__ Computes coverage level for the coverage types implemented.
Doesn't report which elements are not covered. 

__Mark:__ 60

---

### 6. Test Suite Output

__Comments:__ Generates JUnit stubs, doesn't fill in the method bodies. Puts the
test requirement into a comment associated with the stub.

__Mark:__ 65

---

### 7. GitHub Repo and README.md

__Comments:__ Provides a reasonable overview of features, although I didn't
understand from the first reading how the components of what you'd done fitted
together. It could have done with some worked examples with examples of commands
to work with some of your prepared subjects.

__Mark:__ 55

---

### Summary

Some interesting individual components, would have been great if you'd had more
time to make the whole greater than the sum of its parts.

__Overall Mark:__ 66.3% (Number of people in team: 1 -> method used: average of top 4 grades)