### 1. Analysis of the Method Under Test

__Comments:__ This is entirely manual.

__Mark:__ 40

---

### 2. Test Requirement Generation

__Comments:__ Simple branch coverage on the BMI example. It's entirely manual,
I'm not sure that "generation" really happens at all --- the emphasis is
entirely on the tester to analyse everything, so there is next to no support for
them in this step at all.

__Mark:__ 0

---

### 3. Instrumentation

__Comments:__ Manual, for branch coverage. There is a scheme implemented that's
lifted off the Triangle example. 

__Mark:__ 40

---

### 4. Test Data Generation

__Comments:__ Random test generation with parameters, that are configured
with upper and lower bounds. However, this seems to be lifted off the Triangle
example again. 

__Mark:__ 40

---

### 5. Coverage Level Computation and Reporting

__Comments:__ This has to be input manually (statically) into the code. It
doesn't look to me as though it's calculated correctly --- coverage is divided
by 4 in the code (not even via a constant), and there are more than four
branches.

__Mark:__ 0 

---

### 6. Test Suite Output

__Comments:__ I'm not sure you understood this aspect of the project. There
are JUnit test classes supplied but I'm not sure how they are linked to your 
code. 

__Mark:__ 0

---

### 7. GitHub Repo and README.md

__Comments:__ There is a passable but limited overview of the tool.

__Mark:__ 40

---

### Summary

I'm not sure you really understood the assignment. Ask yourself whether it would
take longer to apply your method to the BMI example that you include, or whether
you could work out the inputs manually. 

__Overall Mark:__ 40.0% (Number of people in team: 1 -> method used: average of top 4 grades)